.\"
.\" FreeBSD pkg - a next generation package for the installation and maintenance
.\" of non-core utilities.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"
.Dd October 17, 2022
.Dt RAVENSW-REGISTER 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm "ravensw register"
.Nd register a package into the local package database
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dtN
.Fl M Ar metadatafile
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Cm --{debug,test,no-registration}
.Cm --manifest Ar metadatafile
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used for registering package information into the local package database.
.Pp
The package manifest is a
.Cm UCL
format listing of package metadata.
It contains all of the necessary metadata needed by the package.
.Pp
Other information involving shared library requirements and the packages
that provide them are obtained by direct analysis of the
files installed by the package.
File checksums values should be set as blank strings in the manifest file
since all checksum values will be overridden by calculating the checksums
of the listed staged files.
.Pp
Direct analysis of the installed files can be suppressed by use of
the
.Fl t
option.
This is intended for testing the functionality of
.Xr ravensw 8
itself, and should not be routinely used.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width metadata
.It Fl A , Cm --automatic
Mark the package to be automatically removed if no other packages
depend on it.
For more information please refer to
.Xr ravensw-autoremove 8 .
.It Fl d , Cm --debug
Enable debugging output.
.It Fl N , Cm --no-registration
Disable registration in the package database, the files will be installed
and any scripts will be executed.
.It  Fl M Ar manifest , Cm --manifest Ar manifest
Specifies the package
.Ar manifest
file, the only source of package metadata.
.It  Fl t , Cm --test
Enable testing mode.
This allows
.Nm
to update the package database without performing any of the usual
analysis of files installed by the package.
This option should only be used with caution, and preferably only
for the intended purpose of performing regression tests on
.Xr ravensw 8
itself.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm .
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5
for further description.
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev NO_DESCRIPTIONS"
.It Ev RAVENSW_DBDIR
.El
.Sh FILES
See
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ravensw-repository 5 ,
.Xr ravensw.conf 5 ,
.Xr ravensw 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-add 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-alias 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-annotate 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-autoremove 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-backup 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-check 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-clean 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-config 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-create 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-delete 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-fetch 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-info 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-install 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-lock 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-query 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-repo 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-rquery 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-search 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-set 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shell 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-shlib 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-ssh 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-stats 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-update 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-upgrade 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-version 8 ,
.Xr ravensw-which 8
